Date: 6 November 2023

Session-1 (Introduction to Programming)

Programming a a way to develop an application to perform a specific task. Like: console, window applications, web applications, mobile applications, distributed applications etc.



Application/Software: Set of various programs

Program: Set of instruction to perform a specific task, such as copy, cut, paste, select, find, replace etc.

To create any program, we need programming language.

C, C++, Python, Java, C# etc.

What is the need of programming language?

Programming languages are important to communication with computer system in its own language which is called as binary language/machine language.

Computer is an electronic device hence cannot understand human language. We need specific kind of system software (Compiler/Interpreter) to convert human instructions to machine understanble instructions and vice versa.


Types of computer languages:

1. Low level : machine lanaguage, assembly language
2. Middle level : C (System programming)
3. High level : C++, Python, C#, Java, PHP, Ruby, R, Kotlin etc.

In case of machine language (Binary language) we never need any translator to convert instruction in machine understandable lanaguage.

For example:

1. A : Key pressed by user on Keyboard but your computer is not able to understand this is A

First step : ASCII of key : A

American standard code for Information interchange

7/8 Bits of code for wach and every (Keyboard)

ASCII code of A is 65 (Decimal number 0-9). This decimal number must be converted into Binary code (0/1)

(65) is decimal

Task: Number System:

1. Decimal 
2. Binary
3. Octal 
4. Hexa 

Problem: Create an application like PayTM (Digital Money transaction app)

1. Requirement Analysis : (SRS : Software requirement specification) (System analyst)

2. System Design (Creating models or prototype)
	Algorithms, Flowcharts, Pseudocodes, Class diagrams, UML, ER diagrams, DFDs etc.
	LLD/HLD (Low level design and High level design)

3. Development (coding) phase
	Any programming language
	(Front end developers, back end developers and DBA)

4. Testing phase : Quality check/ Bugs/ Test cases
Testers are trying to findout the quality of product developed by coders (Software testers, Manual Tester, automated testers)

5. Implementation (End user starts using application)

6. Maintenance phase (support engineers)


Topic continue on 7 Number : Programming language


Home assignment:
Task-1: Google about various kind of application.
Task-2: Read about Number systems
Task-3: Read about SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).






























